# The inverse function theorem

**Definition:** Let $A$ be a set.  The identity function $\mathbf{id}_{A}\subset A\times A$ is the function
$$A=\{(a,a) : a\in A\}.$$

**Definition:** Let $F\subset A\times B$ be a relation.  The inverse relation $F^{-1}\subset B\times A$
consists of all pairs $(b,a)$ where $(a,b)\in F$. 

**Definition:** Let $F\subset A\times B$ be a function. Then a function $G:B\to A$ is called an *inverse function*
for $F$ if $F\circ G:B\to B$ is the identity function on $B$, and $G\circ F:A\to A$ is the identity function on $A$.

**Theorem:** Let $F\subset A\times B$ be a function. Then $F$ has an inverse function if and only if $F$
is bijective.  If an inverse function exists, it is unique and is given by the inverse relation $F^{-1}$. 

## Problems - inverse functions

- Why is $f(x)=x^3$ from $\mathbb{R}\to\mathbb{R}$ injective? Why is it surjective?
- (From the homework) Let $f:\mathbb{N}\to\mathbb{Z}$ be the function
$$
f(n)=\frac{(-1)^{n}(2n-1)+1}{4}.
$$
This function is bijective; what is its inverse?

Harder:

- Suppose $f$ and $g$ are injective.  Is $f\circ g$ necessarily injective?
- Suppose $f:A\to B$ and $g:B\to C$ are functions and $g\circ f:A\to C$ is injective.  What can you say about $f$
and $g$?
- Suppose $f:A\to B$ and $g:B\to C$ are surjective.  What can you say about $g\circ f$?
- Suppose $f:A\to B$ and $g:B\to C$ are functions and $g\circ f$ is surjective.  What can you say about $f$ and $g$?

## Problems - image and preimage

- (from the homework) Given $f:A\to B$ and subsets $W,X\subset A$, show that $f(W\cap X)$ need not equal $f(W)\cap f(X)$.
- Given $f:A\to B$ and subsets $W,X\subset A$, show that $f(W\cup X)=f(W)\cup f(X)$.
- (from the homework) Given $f:A\to B$, show that:
    - $f$ is injective iff $f^{-1}(f(X))=X$ for all subsets $X\subset A$.
    - $f$ is surjective iff $f(f^{-1}(Y))=Y$ for all subsets $Y\subset B$.


