### Proofs homework

I'd like you to carefully write up proofs for the following problems:
6, 10, 24, 26, 28.
For each of these problems, your solution should include:

- A statement of any definitions that you will rely on in the proof.
- A couple of examples of the statement that is being proved.
- A proof in paragraph form using complete sentences, proper grammar, and a minimum of symbols.

### Problems


**Problem 6.** If $a|b$ and $a|c$ then $a|(b+c)$.

Proof: Since $a|b$, there is an integer $x$ such that $b=ax$.  Since $a|c$, there is an integer $y$ so that $c=ay$.  Then
$(b+c)=(ax+ay)=a(x+y)$.  Therefore there is an integer $z=(x+y)$ such that $(b+c)=az$ and so $z|(b+c)$. 

**Problem 10.**  Suppose that $a$ and $b$ are integers.  if $a|b$, then $a|(3b^3-b^2+5b)$.

Proof: Since $a|b$, there is an integer $x$ such that $b=ax$.  Then 
$$(3b^3-b^2+5b)=(3a^3x^3-a^2x^2+5ax)=a(3a^2x^3-ax^2+5x).$$
Therefore there is an integer $z=(3a^2x^3-ax^2+5x)$ such that 
$$
(3b^3-b^2+5b)=az
$$
and therefore $a|(3b^3-b^2+5b)$.

**Problem 24.**  If $m\in\mathbb{N}$ and $n\ge 2$, then the numbers $n!+2, n!+3,\ldots, n!+n$ are all composite.

Proof:  We will show that $i|n!+i$ for $i=2,\ldots,n$.  Remember that $n!$ is the product of the numbers from 1 up to $n$.
Therefore, since $i$ is an integer less than $n$ and greater than $1$, it is a divisor of $n!$, and so $n!=ix$ for some  integer $x$.
Then $n!+i=ix+i=i(x+1)$ and so $i$ is also a divisor of $n!+i$.  At the same time $n!+i$ is greater than $i$.  Therefore $n!+i$
has a proper divisor $i$, so $n!+i$ is composite. 

**Problem 26.** Every odd integer is a difference of two squares.

Proof: Let $n$ be an odd integer.  Then there is an integer $k$ so that $n=2k+1$.  Notice that
$$
(k+1)^2-k^2=k^2+2k+1-k^2=2k+1=n.
$$
Therefore $n=(k+1)^2-k^2$.


**Problem 28.** Suppose that $a,b,c$ are integers, that $a$ and $b$ are not both zero, and $c\not=0$.  Prove that
$c\cdot\mathrm{gcd}(a,b)\le \mathrm{gcd}(ca,cb)$.

Proof:  Let $d$ be the greatest common divisor of $a$ and $b$.  Then $d$ is a divisor of both $a$ and $b$.
Then $cd$ is a divisor of both $ca$ and $cb$.  Therefore $cd$ is a common divisor of $ca$ and $cb$.  Since
$\mathrm{gcd}(ca,cb)$ is the *greatest* common divisor of $ca$ and $cb$, we must have $cd\le \mathrm{gcd}(ca,cb)$.







