# Strong induction

## Strong induction

**Axiom of Induction:** For all $n\in \mathbb{N}$, Let $P(n)$ be a statement.  If $P(1)$ is true and, for all
$n\in\mathbb{N}$, $P(n)\implies P(n+1)$, then $P(n)$ is true for all $n\in\mathbb{N}$.

*Strong* induction changes the hypothesis slightly.

**Strong Induction:** For all $n\in\mathbb{N}$, let $P(n)$ be a statement.  If $P(1)$ is true and, 
for all $n$, the statement 
$$
P(1)\wedge P(2)\wedge\cdots\wedge P(n)\implies P(n+1)
$$
is true, then $P(n)$ is true for all $n\in\mathbb{N}$.

This means that if you prove $P(1)$ true, and then, by assuming *all* of the preceeding statements
$P(1),P(2),\ldots, P(n)$ true you can prove $P(n+1)$ true, then all $P(n)$ are true.

\vfill\eject

## Strong induction cont'd

Why does strong induction hold? It holds because it can be changed into regular induction.

Suppose $P(n)$ is a sequence of statements that satisfy the conditions of strong induction,
so $P(1)$ is true and $P(n+1)$ is a consequence of *all* of the preceeding statements $P(1),\ldots,P(n)$.

Let $S(1)=P(1)$, and let $S(n)=P(1)\wedge P(2)\cdots\wedge P(n)$.  We apply regular induction
to the set of statements $S(n)$.

- So $S(n)$ is a sequence of statements, and $S(1)$ is true.  
- Also, we know that $S(n)\implies P(n+1)$ by our hypothesis.  
- But $S(n)\wedge P(n+1)=S(n+1)$, and since $S(n)$ is true and $P(n+1)$ is true, so is $S(n+1)$.  
- Therefore we've shown that $S(1)$ is true and $S(n)\implies S(n+1)$ for all $n\in\mathbb{N}$.  
- By *regular* induction, $S(n)$ is true for all $n$.  
- But the only way $S(n)$ is true is if all $P(j)$ for $1\le j\le n$ are true.  
- So all $P(n)$ are also true. 

