## Why Math 2710?

Focus of mathematics education so far has been:
	- equipping you with tools to solve a range of problems.
	- providing enough of the theoretical framework to understand how those tools work.

For example:
	- you know what a derivative is in general terms.
	and how it can be used to understand rates and find maxima and minima.
	- you know a variety of methods to solve special kinds of differential equations that arise in physics
	and other applied areas.
	- you know generally speaking what to expect when confronted with systems of linear equations.
	
In the process, many fundamental questions have been treated by appeals to intuition or ignored.
For example, you probably understand in general terms what a limit is and how it enters into the construction
of derivatives and integrals, but most likely you have not studied this in detail.

<!-- find an example from a textbook -->

For many people, this kind of knowledge of mathematics is sufficient to work in even pretty technical fields.
After all, we all use powerful tools everyday -- computers, cars, microwave ovens, cellular phones -- 
without more than the vaguest sense of how the work on the inside.

Just like designing a new computer chip requires a different kind of understanding than using a computer,
finding new mathematical tools requires a different kind of understanding of mathematics 
than being able to solve a differential equation.  To contribute new ideas to the mathematical sciences,
you need to understand the foundations of the tools you work with and you need to be able to communicate
with others who are also working on these problems.

This type of understanding requires mastery of an entirely new body of knowledge expressed in 
particular, highly technical language.  Math 2710 is an entry point into this entirely new understanding
of mathematics.

<!-- another example -->

## The Mathematical Sciences as a Discipline

It is very possible that you have probably been studying math for 13 or 14 years and you have never seen
an example of mathematics as a living subject.  The core topics in the curriculum are all *old.* Calculus
was invented in the 17th century and refined through the 19th century, and the techniques you learn in
first year calculus are all 150 years old.  Statistics is somewhat newer, but the ideas from an
introductory statistics course are all probably 100 years old. 

If you've taken more advanced courses
in physics or engineering, you may have learned some quantum mechanics, thermodynamics, electricity and magnetism,
or relativity.  These are all theories that rely on mathematical advances,
but these are all early-to-mid twentieth century discoveries.

-- Pythagorean Theorem (antiquity)
-- Infinitely many prime numbers (attributed to Euclid, ~300 BC)
-- Plane geometry (Euclid, ~300 BC)
-- Fundamental theorem of  Calculus (Newton): 1687
-- Wave equation and other differential equations (Euler, Lagrange, Bernoulli): 1750's
-- Normal curve: deMoivre, 1733; Laplace, 1812
-- Fourier theory (Analytic theory of heat): 1822
-- Non-euclidean geometry (Lobachevsky, Bolyai, 1830's)
-- Finite groups and solvability of algebraic equations (Galois, 1830's)
-- Cannot trisect the angle (Wantzel): 1837
-- Maxwell's Equations for electricity and magnetism discovered: 1865
-- Curved spaces (Riemannian Geometry, Riemann, 1867)
-- Special relativity (Einstein): 1905
-- General relativity (Einstein) based on Riemannian geometry: 1915
-- Quantum mechanics, the hydrogen atom (Schrodinger, Bohr, Heisenberg: 1920's)
-- Linear Regression (Galton, late 19th century)


Imagine if your biology class presented the state of the subject as of 1950!

This can create the impression that mathematics is *finished* and provides a known set of techniques
that scientists can apply to solve the particular problem at hand. 











